# Automatic Irrigation System based on soil texture and Farm Securtiy
This is an Arduino Uno project used to automatically supply water based on soil texture and geolocation. The water supply module is made available using a combination of sensors and a motor. The circuit diagram for this project can be found in circuit-digram.jpg. 

# Abstract
The increasing rate of world population demands for rapid improvement in food production technology. The agricultural sector has a major impact on the world economy, issues regarding which need to be solved by providing innovative solutions. The water scarcity due to the changing weather conditions and the lowering levels of underground water has given us a reason to use our water resource beneficially. About 30-35% of the crop yield is destroyed due to stray/wild animals. These issues can be solved by implementing the modern techniques into the traditional approach of farming. We propose an automatic irrigation system by analyzing the type of soil based on its water retention capacity. This approach would hoard the excessive water lost due to seepage into the lower layers of the soil. Contrarily, it would also eliminate the possibility of providing less water to the crops. In addition to that, we aim to provide farm security to protect against intruders and thieves, thereby protecting the yield. Our motive behind the project is to curb the extensive use of water for irrigation without any human intervention and send alerts for unusual activities in the farm to the user. Hence by implementing this method, we are able to save water which can be used for supplementary activities in the farm. The human effort required is reduced at an extensive level by implementing the automatic system.
